big hello from raleigh north carolina
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more yes we are talking
about some of our favorite topics today
b2b marketing and
our focus for today is really about
startup and the marketing and sales
alignment and how can we optimize it for
the startup companies and i have a
special guest
kayla graham
she has a title operations manager but
she wears multiple hats and she's
responsible
for a company called content co-out and
she does a lot of day-to-day internal
operations at the same time she's also
external facing and she takes care of
her clients seo content marketing
outreach and all sorts of marketing
efforts so we will talk to her a little
bit more about this welcome kayla hey
pam happy to be here thank you for
having me anytime
so how is weather in calgary right now
i'm happy to report that it's not great
looking a little gray looking a little
snowy looking a little dismal and we'll
stay warm okay stay warm
i will
you wear multiple hats and i assume the
company is also in the growing stage
yes
and you are not just working for the
company content co-op which is a growing
company in a way it's a startup itself
you also work very closely with many of
your clients who are sas based platform
companies and you probably have a very
specific point of view in terms of when
the company was formed or the startup
just started they need to determine with
a limited amount of budget they need to
determine who they should hire should
they hire sales person should they hire
a marketing person or should they kind
of get operation person to set up a
process what is your thought by working
with so many companies startup that your
recommendation in terms of what should
they hire first uh yes you have hit the
nail on the head here of basically the
chicken egg situation and also as you
mentioned startups don't really have a
lot of money a lot of budget yeah
i think there's kind of two ways to
approach this and two ways to answer
this and i'm gonna back up the bus here
and take it to the beginning which this
might seem obvious but before you even
start with your operations and with your
sales team and with your marketing team
are you ready to sell yet
awesome i love love love that questions
because first and foremost and this has
happened with a company that i was
working with you know they went to
market they were ready to go they had
marketing they had sales they had
operations they had business but when it
came down to brass tax their tech wasn't
actually ready and they couldn't deliver
on the features that they said that they
were doing i know that in the startup
they use the term mvp
minimal viable product you want to make
sure that your product is if nothing
else at mvp that's ready to actually
sell and then that your customers when
they purchase that product they can use
it real time in the real environment not
on the developing or production
environment 100
and a lot of the times we're working
with companies that they have seed
funding but they might not have series a
and to get to that series a they are
like trying to get revenue they're
trying to get the product on the market
and sometimes like quite frankly it's
just not ready so assuming that we have
all of that in place okay everything's
ready to go okay the next thing that
happens is
ceos do
everything at first they're their own
admin
they're their own sales team they're
their own ops team marketing all of it
i understand because i
i work for myself so i completely
understand
exactly when it comes down to
higher employee number one i think a lot
of times you know ceos are like well i
need someone in sales i need to sell
sell sell or they might hire an
operations person instead and i think
what it really really comes down to
is
what is your strength as a ceo
so if you're very very process focused
then you probably actually want to go
with sales first maybe you're not that
good at taking those calls and doing
that outreach i mean let's be honest it
can be very soul sucking to take meeting
after meeting after meeting and just
hear the word no over and over and over
again you know but on the other hand if
you aren't very good at operations and
you don't really know how to make
process and you don't really have the
i don't want to say the skill set but
you don't
have the strength of being able to see
like where your packages exist what are
you actually selling you might want to
hire an operations person fert yeah i
have been in a lot of meetings where
this went the opposite way that it was
supposed to and you know some some
companies get pretty far along and they
don't even have any internal process or
any way to make you know the packages
that they're selling so i think that's
where i stand on that so kayla just to
paraphrase and make sure that i
understand
basically
in the very
beginning stage of startup and your
recommendational advice is to make sure
that ceos look at themselves and have a
good understanding in terms of what they
are good at what are their strengths or
the areas for improvement if they are
very good at sales hire someone else
that can complement the area they are
not very good at and if they are very
good at process then higher sales person
not to actually can amplify and sell the
product under the assumption that the
product is ready to go there is another
piece of this which is when does
marketing come in i was going to ask you
about that now
that's assumed the product is fantastic
they are growing
not rapidly but they are growing
steadily so when do you think that
startups should look into build the
marketing team and also should that be
in-sourced or outsourced
that's actually a tough question because
it kind of all depends on where you are
so you know is this your first startup
if it is
you might not have a very good personal
brand yet you might not have any thought
leadership developed maybe no one knows
who you are so if we even look at the
marketing funnel you're in awareness
you're in the awareness phase how about
the funnel which is yeah you need to
build the brain awareness yes that's
right and you know i think a lot of
people try to fast forward through that
process and you just actually can't you
people have to know who you are and as
you're building your company that is a
very interesting marketing story
actually because it helps you build
authenticity in your brand i mean
especially when we're doing b2b people
don't want to really connect with the
machine they still want to connect with
a story yeah or a person yeah exactly
and yes they want a solution that works
for them but ultimately they they want
to connect with the story behind that
and the authenticity so i think there's
a lot of value in
you know as you're you're building even
if you're not doing traditional
marketing just documenting your story on
linkedin and building up thought
leadership that way i think i think it
does a lot even just you know to build
the awareness yeah but you know building
a brain awareness i mean brain awareness
such a big word you know a lot of times
when people think when people think that
a brain awareness they were like oh
everybody needs to know who i am
for startup their budget is limited
the pay
you know part of it it doesn't matter
it's pay social or even a pay media
effort pay is kind of expensive so
i understand that doing the linkedin or
have the content on your website and
then you do a regular organic outreach
is important but without budget it's
very very hard to build that brain
awareness what is your thought on that
i completely agree uh without budget i
think everything is hard i know talk to
me i mean seriously that's why the ceo
ends up being the marketer half the time
uh but you know i think it's all about
what is the potential that marketing can
bring you
if i make a marketing plan what am i
going to achieve from that what is the
best case scenario what is probable
what's going what can i actually achieve
from that
and figuring out when you should start
to implement that is it's really
important i don't know that it's like
necessarily about how much revenue
you're making and i understand that
budgeting is tough
but you you do have to put some of it
aside for marketing and and in the
beginning that means you probably are
outsourcing to an agency which is
totally okay i will say this though if
you don't have someone on your side that
is dedicated to reviewing strategy
reviewing the marketing plan reviewing
the content that's coming in and
actually sitting down and approving it
and making sure that it you know ticks
the boxes to hit your ideal customer
profile
you're gonna be in trouble so that
happens a lot that you don't actually
have anyone on your side directing
traffic
and you know even if you can just get
someone part-time to do it i think i
think it makes a big difference
you need to have a plan to direct the
traffic or tell people what to do and i
agree with you that in terms of like if
you're 100 out of that and but nobody's
taking the lead on the marketing front
or the ceo just taking kind of like just
doing it like a part-time that's not
going to be very successful
and i feel that somebody needs to
represent the company and that person
can either be part-time or they can be
full-time but having ceo or somebody
wears multiple hats i don't think that
war works very well at the end of the
day that usually is what happens at
least at first in the beginning the ceo
does have to do a lot of hats but i
think there's also
an issue too where people don't realize
how much time it actually takes to
review that content talk to me about
that oh my god do you know how many
times i have to talk to my clients like
senior manager of like my client oh that
should be done like tomorrow tomorrow
alright no that's not true
you know we have to go through the
process and on top of it even the image
the image that you use for linkedin they
have different sizes actually for
twitter and also for facebook
and also you need to write a copy a
little bit differently and for different
channels i do agree it takes quite a bit
of time to actually get that done and a
lot of time managers senior managers or
sales people they don't really
understand how time-consuming
the marketing especially digital
marketing you know nowadays modern
marketing how time-consuming these texts
are it's so time consuming it's
ridiculous i always make this joke you
know that people like to wave a magic
wand the marketing magic wand and
everything is just done but
unfortunately it doesn't work that way
like we don't we don't write a blog post
and then all of a sudden you're on page
one of google
it's a long play it's a long play
absolutely and even if the ceo says okay
i'm gonna review the content
okay
great you're reading it but are you
tying it back to your customer profiles
to make sure that the message makes
sense are you thinking about your
audience and what you know about them
are you making sure it's ticking the
boxes of you know the information that
you're trying to give your audience what
is the point of this content that you're
making it's a full-time job all myself
on top of that too okay so you found the
best ghost writer in the world
congratulations that is already very
very hard to do
i try so many writers
and i tend to write stuff myself but
from time to time i actually have
someone else i will write a draft and
someone else edit or she can create the
first draft and i will take over it
doesn't matter but it's very very hard
to find like a person that really know
your style and yes it's cost effective
it cannot be too expensive
make sure that you're not going to get
back something that's useless that means
you have to do a lot of work on the
front end providing a brief for that
writer even if they are the best ghost
writer in the world you still have to do
that you absolutely have to brief them
briefing is so important and if you
don't have a dedicated marketing person
on your team to even handle doing those
briefs it can become just so cumbersome
when you get the piece because if you
don't do that prep work in advance
honestly
in a way you are not giving your agency
or contractor direction
right so they can take any direction
they want
and then of course when they present the
information to you and you're like what
this is not what i want
but you did not give them a specific
direction you need to provide a
direction first you hit the nail on the
head there and this is what we're
talking about when you get into revision
d7 d8 draft number nine draft number 10
and you know it ends up being just way
more of a time suck for everyone yeah
it's not a situation anyone wants to be
in you don't want to be in that
situation as the writer because you
can't make profit and also you just get
that like imposter syndrome feeling of
like oh my god do they hate everything
i've done you don't want to be in that
situation as like a project manager or
you know the person who's directing
traffic it's just it's not a good
situation for anyone so yes you have to
provide those directions and it becomes
really challenging if you're the ceo
trying to do everything yourself having
that one dedicated person
it does it helps yeah i 100 agree so now
we have a dedicated person marketing a
person that actually work with agencies
and contractors and actually create a
plan so what are the tools
that the marketing and sales
must to have
to make sure that the whole thing is
running smoothly
anything that automates processes that
are typically manual and horrible to do
number one in my book is an amazing tool
so to give you an example you always
need a project management tool of some
kind
does your project management tool
integrate with any of the other tools
that you're using so just for me from a
user perspective my team does a lot of
our talking
internally on slack because we're a
remote team as many teams are these days
and you know things come up in those
discussions that end up being tasks and
then they just get lost in the sea of of
nothingness but what i love about it is
that there's a tool right inside of
slack that can make that a task right in
our project management software boom it
goes in it doesn't get lost now if we're
talking about marketing and sales
talking to each other
having a good crm and a good crm process
is you know super super important so
to me i mean
i will die on this hill i think that
hubspot is the best one and there's
always more integrations coming with it
even their seo tools are like starting
to knock it out of the park and compete
with wordpress really well so i mean i'm
very i'm very pro hubspot
really so the thing about hubspot i have
several friends that actually use
hubspot to build their website
the loading speed is way too slow it
takes forever to low i'm not necessarily
in agreement with that sorry
well and that's totally fair because the
other disadvantage too about them is
that they only have a few templates so
they're not yet at the customization
level that say wordpress is at
but i do think like it's gonna start to
come and and you know we might see that
in the next few years now if we're
talking just you know marketing and
sales being able to have visibility into
what each other are doing i think the
hubspot crm tool works really really
well for that there has to be a
communication between sales and
marketing and
you know i think this is just like an
age-old battle where sales and marketing
don't get along
i think it's not like they don't get
along i a lot of time it's just a matter
of um they have different goals or they
approach things a little bit differently
or
when i say they have different goals
that means oh my god
you know company has the revenue goal
and then marketing tried to do something
else and sales trying to do something
else i think the overall business goal
stayed the same
but once that's translated down to a
different organization it tends to be a
different stuff for example hr is not
going to focus on the revenue goal but
hr is going to focus on hiring does that
make sense
and then in the marketing maybe they are
focused on legion
or they focus on the brain awareness but
the sales side they tend to focus on
they tend to focus on the middle of the
funnel the purchase funnel or the bottom
of the purchase funnel so it's the focus
tend to be different but they still
trying to achieve the same business
objectives
does that make sense so it's just the
way they approach things or the things
that they will do they or they want to
accomplish at that time
at the same time they are not
necessarily aligned they are still
working toward the same goal
i'm with you on this and the way i like
to look at it is like swimming in a pool
we're all swimming towards the end of
the pool but we all have a lane we all
have a lane that we're swimming in right
i do agree with you in terms of the
sales and marketing alignment is
actually hard
it's much harder what i have seen
because i work with the global
enterprises and many of my clients are a
big enterprises and because they are so
big so
having the challenge to align the sales
and marketing tend to be much harder
because both sides have a very big
organization does that make sense they
are they have a very big they all have a
very big organizations therefore is very
very hard to align from time to time and
or the alignment needs to be driven from
the top
but i always get a sense and by talking
to several startups
that i'm close to
the sales and marketing tend to be very
close like
i was talking to several companies they
also sell sas based platform because the
company is pretty small
and the marketing only two people and
the sales is about 10
and they talk to each other all the time
is that the case what you see in reality
as well
well
yes
but also no
like we said
everybody is swimming towards the end of
the pool towards the same goal so yeah
they want to sell and create revenue
that's what everybody's trying to do i
think that marketing especially in a
small company though they are split up
over so many tasks that it becomes hard
to give support to their own internal
sales team when a lot of their efforts
are focused on external factors the
second part of that where i see like
animosity happening is
okay so sales is going to act on the
leads that are generated by marketing
they're going to take the mqls right
they will say it's not high quality
exactly it's not high quality or you
know this lead is not warm enough so
there's something going on in the
process internally that things aren't as
far along as they should be before it's
passed off to the sales team and that
often has to do with kpis and metrics
especially in a startup you're trying to
cover your or you know carve out your
own piece of the pie which is what's my
bonus structure gonna look like this
year and and how much budget is my team
gonna get and to do that you have to you
know hit your okrs hit your kpis and
that could be x amount of leads so you
know someone signs a form
and you know to view a white paper is
that really a lead well
no
right and sometimes those are getting
passed on and they're not high quality
when they come to sales and that creates
a problem in the process and a problem
for sales so
you know i have to be honest i haven't
actually seen yet a really really good
example of this working super super well
and i'm sure that with within time it
will and i'd be really interesting to
get your perspective on how that works
in the big companies because i imagine
the bureaucracy and red tape around you
know even just making decisions can be
super super hindering it's very hard to
actually align between sales and
marketing in the big organizations the
reason is for example if you're talking
about a global enterprise and on the
sales side and they focus on multiple
different verticals because they are
such a big companies they probably sell
the solution to healthcare the financial
institution manufacturing government etc
on top of it they also have different
accounts right and the accounts usually
have a different levels you have this
global national account you have the
mid-sized accounts and then you have
like
smb the small business accounts so the
different tiers of accounts and also
require different kind of support so you
can see like the
the industries
and also the different sizes of accounts
already two different variables
sales tend to be the organization
probably structured either by industry
or by regions
right so hey you manage the east coast i
manage the west coast and somebody
maintain the central region of the us so
that's another variable so in terms of
supporting sales
there are so many variables that the
marketing team
has to take into account
and also if you want to create content
should the content be by a different
industry
or should that be by different regions
for that matter so there's a layers and
layers of complexity i think in the big
organization in terms of what marketing
can do to support sales on top of it you
mentioned another thing which is the
processes and also the mod tech stack
also need to build up to actually
support that
right if we want to track the nql from
nql
move for marketing automation mql move
into kind of like cim that process needs
to be very smooth and at the same time
when that's uh transferred onto the
sales side what sales uh do with that
specific mql also needs to be tracked
that requires sales entry information
into the system in a long time
guess what
you're not going to get that sales i'm
not interested actually
it's not not going to happen there's
just a lot of things that's kind of like
going on like in parallel
when i try to work with marketing team
actually supporting sales i always tell
them to take baby steps
especially in the bigger organization
there are so many issues needs to be
addressed so what are one or two issues
that we can address now you know and
identify some of low-hanging fruit for
sure that you can you can take care of
it in short period of time and there is
obviously
the long-term collaboration or process
or even the data integration that needs
to happen in the back end
that usually requires several quarters
of a planning sometimes even a year
so that kind of stuff it requires a
whole lot more work but they are from my
perspective low-hanging fruit and also
you know something that's required much
broader in uh initiative or no
investment to get it done and you have
to look at from you know kind of like a
two different perspective you feel well
i'm glad you brought up the baby steps
because i think this is something that's
really important even just in startups
when sales and marketing are working
together and it goes even into you know
content planning and strategy as well
startups and still i think big
businesses too and i know this is a
gross word and we've heard enough of it
in 2021 but agility is key and we have
learned that and if we have this big
plan with not a lot of flexibility in it
whether it's the sales side or the
marketing side and things change well
then you're in trouble so there's a
certain level of agility that needs to
be built into that for for quick change
and like you said it can be so difficult
to do that when you're planning
you know three quarters in advance a
year in advance it's like oh my goodness
like how are we going to change this now
it's kovit it's it's the suez canal it's
this it's that but i do agree with you
that replanning is very very critical
and i usually suggest my client to do it
like every single quarter i agree with
doing that however with how fast
startups seem to change change change
direction i find that there is like
almost more value and in being
disciplined to do it every single
quarter and if you don't if you don't do
it for the year then guess what you have
to do it every single quarter
that is true that is true
what are some of the challenges that
companies tend to encounter especially
they are growing very fast
or they are not growing at all right
startup is always have a lot of
challenges you know they have growing
pain or they were like oh we are not
growing so what are some of the common
challenges that you have found dealing
with your customers what would be your
recommendation in terms of how to
address these challenges if you can name
one or two that would be great yeah so
quick growth is is always
it's it's a good problem to have it's a
good problem to have but it does create
a lot of really sticky internal problems
and one of the things you brought up
earlier was the martech stack and it
creates problems with the martech stack
because the tool that you had earlier
might not be any good down the road and
then you get a new marketing manager
a new a new cmo and they roll out a new
tool and now you actually have a
tailspin problem as well because you're
paying for a bunch of tools that you're
not even using nobody knows what
processes to use nobody knows what tools
you use it's fragmented all of your
information is siloed and living in
different places and yeah that's pretty
much a nightmare and a common one
and you know when i think about common
problems that is like one of the biggest
ones
on the other side if you're not growing
i mean uh i think the problem is pretty
obvious
i mean you're losing talented team
members because they can feel the death
in the air
they're looking for other jobs do you
think most of time not growing
do you attribute that to products so the
other thing that i notice a lot in in
high growth startups is there's a lot of
competition so
i work with a lot of clients that
specialize in supply chain and
procurement different uh sas solutions
for that and
the competition is fierce easy yeah
it seems like every week there's a new
solution so it's like how fast is your
tech evolving
how much are you investing in that do
you have your eyes on what the
competition is doing because there
starts to be a lot of feature overlap
can your tech integrate like do your
apis integrate and then it becomes up to
marketing to get that message out there
you know get it to the world and and get
it to to the customers if your product
it just happened to hit the core at the
right place at the right time it can
take off but that doesn't mean that you
know you will enjoy that
longevity of the possibility now a lot
of time a year and two later there's
another players that come into play and
can do so much better than you and all
of a sudden in two years or three years
your product just absolutely
really good example of that i think and
sorry if i'm calling anyone out here but
when i looked at what happened with the
pandemic when all these teams started
working at home and zoom became really
really popular well a few years ago
before zoom i didn't even know what it
was we always used to meeting at my
offices and that seemed to kind of like
disappear and go extinct and i think
that's a very perfect example of that
someone who was competitive you know was
ready for it when everyone was working
at home another good example i think is
evernote like oh five or six years ago
everybody has evernote and then google
kind of build the notes functionality
into their platform and the apple does
the same thing too
some of the office suite or even a cim
tool they all build that notes
functionalities into their platform and
their software
and then slowly evernote becomes
irrelevant i still use evernote i still
have my annual membership feed and i pay
but the thing is you don't hear much
about evernote anymore but it was a very
hot a startup for a long time
and then like i said the competition is
fierce in the sas based platform space
it really is and i mean trying to keep
that momentum up of when you're hot
that's a really hard job
i 100 agree with you and you constantly
have to add new features you constantly
have to invest into your product it goes
back to what we said too at the start of
the call i don't care what people say
how glamorous startup is no it's
it's a swiss shop i mean it's like it's
a daily grind it's absolutely a daily
run yeah
it absolutely is and you know i think
that plays into this this dialogue that
we've been given about the hustle
culture and how this is kind of like
glamorized now even to to do this how
hard can you work
so i would like to summarize a lot of
insights that you share with us number
one is very much that if for your first
hire
of your startup it depends on the ceo's
strengths and also weaknesses and if you
know what you are good at to hire
somebody to compliment you
if you are growing somehow you will know
when you need to hire a marketing team
but to hire a marketing team is nice to
actually hire one person that dedicated
specifically for the marketing function
and that that person can put the plan
together it can also be a conduit
between the agency and also the ceo or
the senior management and this person
can also review a lot of content or the
copies or anything created by agencies
and contractors third things that you
mentioned is trying to find tools that
will automate your processes
and but at the same time the tool needs
to be integrated into the existing tools
that you use
and another must-have tool is cim you
need to actually have the cim is really
a customer relationship database you
need to track your customers database
data insights and information and the
not just the sales people should use
that the marketing people should also be
very much aware and also you be a
proficient and user of the cim as well
and in terms of a sales and marketing
alignment
i guess you know you and i talk about
how challenges that needs to be i
personally think that needs to be kind
of top-down driven
if the cmo the vpn marketing and vp of
sales are very closely aligned that kind
of message
will permeate down to the you know work
b level and if they are aligned then i
personally think people will align as
well but if they are doing their thing
separately
you know what then the teams will just
be
siloed so i feel that needs to be
top-down driven to some and yeah very
good i'm so happy that you come to my
show and you share your insight i would
like to ask you one question what is one
place that you always want to go and
have never been to
oh there's so many places so to put it
in perspective for you i didn't even
leave canada until i was 20. so i have a
lot of traveling to do on the bucket
list is definitely tokyo oh i love tokyo
i love japan
paris
and i also want to go to colombia so
trying to hit a few continents here
really
okay that's very good
okay thank you so much kayla for joining
me and so happy to have you on my show
this was a lot of fun thank you so much
for having me it's a wrap take care bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]
you